Current approaches to marketing musicians have changed following the dramatic rise and dominance of online streaming and the prevalence of social media outlets in creating distinct brands. Direct marketing on social media and a comprehensive online presence has become critical to the success of these artists. However, for up and coming artists, breaking finding widespread success has become increasingly difficult due to the sheer volume of new artists that are discoverable on these platforms. This paper responded to this problem by trying to examine if commonalities existed between the audience of musicians in a similar genre, and whether these characteristics could be utilized to identify up-and-coming musicians. In order to examine this, information was taken from widely used social media platforms, specifically Twitter, about the audience of 4 artists. This was done by interfacing with Twitter’s API (Application Programming Interface), drawing information about the followers of these musicians (i.e. # of friends, location, etc.), as well as who these individual users were following. This information was transformed into readable data and then processed in R, mainly using multinomial logistic regressions and frequency tables to find if meaningful correlations existed within the followers of these musicians, and the commonalities between the followed of the followers of these musicians. The results of these tests showed that correlations were not mathematically found between the categories being compared and each of the artist’s followers, but when looking at the frequency of said categorical variables and outside user’s followed by the artist’s followers, there were clear groups and important patterns seen individually and all of the artist’s. The paper concludes by noting that even though mathematical evidence of correlations were not found in the datapoints of the users, the frequency of commonly held characteristics shows that future attempts to do so using a machine learning approach would likely yield better results.

The code included here contains both the R and Python scripts utilized to draw and analyze this data, minus any API keys. 

Please let me know if you have any questions, or would like to reach out to me about this code
